# popularitybot
The purpose of this project stems from a desire to understand what makes internet media content popular. Media sharing via online platforms has become the most prominent and fastest propagating source of communication in contemporary society. Analyzing trends and forecasting the outlook of what is posted on these mediums can be very useful. This project has narrowed its focus to the Reddit internet domain (Reddit.com), and more specifically, a collection of subreddits solely concerned with memes. Memes are merely a form of media that traditionally contain a picture with overlaying text. They are intended to present social commentary to their audience, often in a comedic light. Predicting what makes a meme in these particular subreddits popular or trend worthy was deemed an appropriate sample of what drives Internet culture at large.   Data collection involved collecting as many meme posts as possible to gain insights from the posts shared on Reddit. The team’s Python program scraped the following subreddits: r/AdviceAnimals, r/memes, r/dankmemes, and r/PrequelMemes. The program collected a wide variety of explanatory variables including features such as post title, post score, user, and the number of comments. The actual meme image from each post was saved in the form of a URL and fed through Google’s Vision API to mine the meme’s embedded text and colour distributions. Having obtained all textual features, it was then possible to perform a sentiment analysis on the all post-related text. Each post’s title and embedded image text were described on numerical scales that represented how positive or negative the message was. The analysis to follow interpreted how the features mentioned above impacted a meme’s popularity. 

#authors
Pia Medina
Quinn Turner
Stylianos Kapadoukakis
Melissa Pulenzas
